9:00 a.m. in Shanghai, Shenzhen, and
here in Hong Kong. You're watching the
China show. I'm Yvonne Man with David
Ingles.
>> We are counting down to the open of
markets in greater China. Our top
stories [music] today, US assets fall as
safe haven surge as President [music]
Trump threatens new tariffs in several
EU allies in pursuit of his desire to
take over Greenland.
>> Fury in European capitals serving as the
backdrop for Trump's return to Davos
this week with the continent's leaders
considering potential tariffs of their
own in retaliation.
>> And China releases a flood of economic
data at the top of the next hour.
Economists expect the numbers [music] to
show the slowest growth expansion since
the reopening from COVID lockdowns.
>> [music]
>> Risk-off Monday. As you can see, Asian
equities are off, not to the extent we
are seeing the pressure coming through
in US assets, and that compared to
European assets, not to the extent of
the latter coming through. 1.3% of Euro
stocks 50 futures. This is a story that
will continue to track and
get into in greater detail in a moment
here. It's also showing up in fact when
you look at the currency markets, right?
Where this flight to haven is really
showing up in the form of an
outperformance in the yen, an
outperformance in the Swiss currency.
The Euro to lesser extent coming
through. Dollar one, of course,
indicator of appetite as it pertains to
EMs right now, just a proxy there, if
you will, across that specific one. Now,
all that is to say when you look at the
metals market, also similar theme we're
looking at there, where you have silver.
Yeah, there we go. 6% gold, fresh
record. 2% to the upside. A slight
bounce we are getting, of course, in the
other metals coming online right now.
This has to also do with the fact that
on Friday in the afternoon towards the
end of the session, we did get of course
a very sharp sell-off, steep sell-off
across some of the metals related
perhaps to the China story which we'll
get to later on. Right, A50 futures,
just keep in mind we are coming off four
weeks of gains on MSCI China and we are
likely to see uh the open uh much lower
today, fairly consistent with the
sell-off we're seeing across the region.
Half of 1% on A50 futures. Uh and yes,
everything from data comes out this
hour. So, I think you have property
prices, you have
uh and of course you have the the
activity numbers coming through in the
next hour.
>> Yeah, it seems like you you you might
see right growth momentum really slow
down the fourth quarter. I think it's
still able to kind of reach that
threshold of 5% growth for the year at
least for China, but I think most
economists are expecting maybe this year
you're going to see growth that's going
to be sub 5% uh in some ways. When you
start to see maybe the exports that are
things may be slow down just a bit. Uh
but certainly it's going to be a key
question there as well, but you got to
take it back to Greenland, right?
Because of what we've been hearing, the
threats that all came from just one post
on Saturday from the president
threatening tariffs when it comes to
some of his European allies. And you
know, Bloomberg Economics says, right,
that could really cut exports by about
50% uh to Europe potentially here. What
does that mean for growth? Uh also, I
mean, you're talking about tariff rates
that could be even higher than the likes
of China that the US has imposed as well
on Europe if this whole Greenland sort
of threat gets implemented.
>> Yeah, these are US allies in Europe
which if you recall, the US just struck
a trade deal
with its allies in Europe, of course.
And how can you now trust a trade deal
uh just months old given of course the
changing narrative and the likelihood
that we might get more tariffs coming
through. Is this a card play? And of
course it really brings us back all
roads will lead at least this week to
what's taking place in Davos, of course.
>> Wednesday's when the President Trump is
going to speak at in Switzerland here as
he does face of course those European
allies. So, I think markets are really
going to be waiting on and really seeing
what the tone is going to be from the
president here on how is you know how
far is he really to really push on this
whole Greenland issue. It is now the
time for Europe to kind of push back.
And really maybe stop appeasing
President Trump as as some have called
it. I think it was interesting what we
heard uh from the Treasury Secretary
Scott Bessent over the weekend as well
saying the US won't back down when it
comes to Greenland because the continent
is too weak to ensure its security. Take
a listen.
>> If there were an attack on Greenland
from Russia from the some other other
area, we would get dragged in. So better
now, peace through strength, make it
part of the United States and there will
not be a conflict because the United
States right now, we are the hottest
country in the world. We are the
strongest country in the world.
Europeans project weakness. US projects
strength.
>> Does Davos have a spine? That is the
question that Stephen Roach uh has laid
out here. He The first time I think in
10 plus years, he's not going to be
attending. But he's like, "I wish I was
there."
>> Just to see this or what
>> Just to see how this is going to unfold.
>> If they'll do something.
>> If they do something. And of course this
is going to be the face-to-face, of
course, since this uh you know
escalation of transatlantic you know
relations, right? So I want to see
firsthand if European leaders have the
courage to do what American leaders have
not done, challenge the growing insanity
of a power-hungry American president.
>> And so our understanding is European
leaders are likely to meet in person,
right? Over the next few days or so.
It's still unclear where where that will
be because most
Well, okay. Many of them, just to be
just to hedge that. Many of them will
likely be attending and to what extent
we will hear in public a pushback.
Uh and really what the tone is going to
be, right? Because Donald Trump will
either likely try to sell the idea of
Greenland, justify it against the
backdrop of this global community of
investors, business people that are
hinged on not just everything he says,
but everything he does as far as the
trade deal is concerned.
>> You're hearing the likes of the French
president, Emmanuel Macron, talking
about this anti-coercion instrument,
right?
Are they going to have to use this what
people are saying is the bazooka that
Europe has in this escalating tensions
here, and that would go beyond just
custom duties, right? That could also
limit the market access that maybe some
of these US tech titans have in the
continent, too.
>> Okay. Yeah. Uh Looks like we have our
hands full.
>> Yep.
>> Going to And we haven't even talked
about the PCN and the Fed, and there's a
different conversation now taking place.
We'll We'll talk about that uh later,
but I think when you look at markets
today, it's clearly that is the big
story that markets are trading on,
whether that's precious metals at a
record, that's whether equities are on
offer, defense stocks in the region are
playing up on the back of the
conversations around this. Uh Rosalind
Mathieson is with us right now. Our
Bloomberg News Chief Asia Correspondent
is with us to help us understand the
latest and and how we got here this
Monday.
>> Well, that's right. Well, interestingly,
we're going to have, as you say, Donald
Trump talking at Davos, but the contrast
will be Davos a year ago, because Donald
Trump was just in the door as president
a year ago, and he did address Davos
virtually, and everybody wanted to
understand, what is this presidency
going to look like? Well, we're a year
in. We've got a sense, at least, of some
of the the chaos um that can come from
this administration, and certainly
Donald Trump, you know, upending uh some
of the global order by changing his
relationship with allies and foes alike.
Um and particularly when it comes to
Europe, where Davos is obviously going
to be held. He's coming in right as he's
threatening again tariffs on European
allies over Greenland, where he's coming
in saying that Greenland needs to become
part of the US, where he's again
criticizing NATO, European nations for
not doing enough. You know, as Scott
Bessent was saying, US is projecting
strength, Europe is projecting weakness.
And really, that's the question then for
Europe at Davos. How are they going to
counter that with all those leaders
turning up? You know, have they Are they
going to continue to do what some have
called appeasement, try negotiate him
off the perch, or are they actually
going to stand up and say, you know,
we've had it, that's enough, and we're
going to come at you, including on
trade? Because Scott Bessent talks about
weakness, but Europe does actually have
some some skin in the game here,
particularly when it comes to the trade
side, and they can actually impact the
US economy and companies there with
their trade policies. And so, the
question is, are they willing to do
that? But they'll probably want to see
first what Donald Trump comes in and
says at Davos, and just how critical he
is of Europe in all of that.
>> Yeah, and can you tell us a bit more
about the options Europe has at this
moment? We talked about this
anti-coercion sort of measure that they
have, but, you know,
what options does Europe have in
responding to these tariff threats now?
>> Well, they've suspended about 93 billion
euros worth of retaliatory action
against the US on trade, and that's a
fair bit, and they can particularly
target certain sectors and companies in
the US. And some of the kind of names
that really hurt around sort of like,
you know, US alcohol and so on, Levi
jeans, all those kind of big names,
Harley Davidson, and so on. So, do they
decide to unfreeze that action? Do they
go towards that anti-coercion mechanism
that Emmanuel Macron is so fond of? The
question is, but can Europe do that
collectively? Because Macron's raised
that mechanism before, and we've seen
Germany particularly be very cautious,
the big economy in Europe saying, "Hang
on, we'd rather try negotiate our way
out of this versus coming at the US hard
on it." So, is this the moment that
Europe comes together and says, "You
know what, we actually just have to go
for it in terms of standing up for
ourselves. But you've also got, you
know, you've got Hungary with Victor
Orban who favors a very different
approach. You've got the Italian leader
Georgia Meloni who says, let me
negotiate with Trump because I do have a
relationship with him and let's try and
get him to de-escalate on some of this.
So, that leaders meeting this week for
Europe will be really interesting to see
can they come together and say we can
project strength to the US um both on
the military side and on the trade side.
>> Ros, thank you Rosalind Mathieson there,
our chief Asia correspondent. Setting up
for what could be a very contentious
sort of travels here this week. Of
course, we're going to talk a little
more about this. The Center for
Strategic and International Studies
senior advisor William Reinsch is going
to be joining us in just a few moments
to break down the situation between
Trump and Europe. Uh the agenda today
could be quite interesting, too, Dave.
Given we are expecting the activity
data, home prices as you mentioned as
well. Likely to see things maybe slowing
down. We'll see how the ruble behaves,
right? Given the strength that we've
seen in the metals rally that continues
to be hot. But on Friday, we certainly
did see them take a hit.
>> Yeah, tin, copper, zinc on the back of
the moves coming out, of course, out of
China and the report, of course, we just
had there. And interesting, of course,
on the the yuan fix, which we'll get
literally in almost 4 minutes from now,
is because this is really a day when the
dollar is weaker, but a weaker dollar
isn't helping risk assets. So, the fix
has really been stronger. It has yet to
cross below the seven handle on the fix
itself. So, we'll see whether or not the
dollar weakness might lead to that
specifically. And of course, Long Yi
Green did flag that
full year uh net loss really on the back
of things like the weakness in the
economy, right? In fact, just on that
note, upcoming data dump coming through
in the next hour. Stephen Engle is here
with us to help us understand the these
numbers and is the growth target of
around 5% under threat?
>> I think it's pretty much a foregone
conclusion that they're going to reach
that target of around 5%. Uh, there were
some pockets of strength in the
beginning part of the year and we're
kind of tripping and trudging towards
the end of the year. Granted, the
month-over-month numbers from November
to December, they weren't bad. They sort
of stabilized, but again, based on base
effects, you're going to see on a
year-over-year basis the numbers
actually look pretty weak. And the
Chinese economy, if you look at retail
sales and consumption overall, is pretty
weak right now. You're going to have
likely a seventh consecutive month of
slowing pace of growth. We're getting
down to about 1% is the consensus
estimate for the gain in retail sales
year-over-year. Actually, Bloomberg
Economics expects it to be even worse at
0.9%.
So, that would be a seventh consecutive
month of decelerating growth in retail
sales.
Fourth quarter GDP expected to come in
at about 4.5% after 4.8%
in the third quarter, but as I said,
there was some strength in the beginning
part of the year, so you're probably
going to see right around 5%. That's the
consensus estimate for the full year
last year. But again, it begs a lot of
questions going forward, especially with
industrial production factory output
looking weak as well. Factory output
expected to be at Where is my number?
>> Plus 5%?
>> There it is.
>> Yeah.
>> Plus 5%. Again, slowest pace since
August of 2024 in November of 4.8% and
again, Bloomberg Economics is more
bearish. They're expecting 4.7% growth
and not the consensus estimate of five.
So, again, you have to look at where are
going to be the engines going into the
beginning part of this Well, we're
already in the beginning part of this
year. Exports did really well in
December, better than expected. But can
you keep on relying, given the
uncertainty of global trade, can you
keep on relying on exports to keep on
powering this machine, especially when,
of course, property, there's no
resolution in sight.
>> And interestingly, when you look at
exports, despite this trade truce with
the US, especially over critical
minerals, we saw drop
>> Yes.
>> in Chinese rare earth exports. What's
behind that?
>> sort of expect that the truce with the
United States and the approval of export
licenses for rare earth batteries and
the like for the tech sector, you would
have seen perhaps in December a pickup.
But actually we saw according to the
customs data or the Ministry of Commerce
as well, the numbers actually dropped on
rare earth exports in December
month over month from November. And
again,
the data that came out yesterday,
Sunday, doesn't break out geography or
sector for those rare earth exports. But
you know, anecdotal evidence, more than
anecdotal evidence, if you listen to
statements from Ministry of Commerce, if
you look at other comments from the
Chinese government, they are using that
lever
against Japan in this latest dispute. In
particular, with that
supply chain in in Japan and the needs
of industrial Japan in the high-tech
sector and automobiles, rare earth
magnets are a key one. They've tightened
the export restrictions on these
products to Japan. So again, that's
probably the reason why we're seeing But
the data doesn't say that, right? It's
probably the reason why. We have to see
a few more months
as this carries on if this is truly the
cause of that.
>> Let's see. Thank you, Stephen Engle, our
chief North Asia correspondent on the
latest and what to expect in the data
dump coming up in just a well, 15
minutes time when it comes to home
prices in the top of the hour. For the
rest of it, ANZ's Ruby Yang will be
joining us there in the next hour as we
break down live, of course, that data
dump from China. But first, we have JP
Morgan's chief China equity strategist
Wendy Liu joining us to explain why
they're seeing MSCI China outperforming
CSI 300 this quarter.
>> Yeah, I think 100 is their target on
MSCI China. Yeah, more on that in a
moment. Just a quick glance at what this
big week's going to be looking like. Of
course,
Monday as we've talked about, this
Mandava starts. Midweek is when the US
president makes that speech and towards
the end of that week a monetary policy
decision out of the Bank of Japan. In
what way can the BOJ keep the door open
to rate hikes without well, maintaining
optionality, not giving away when that
specific one will be. Okay, the
reference rate of today right now just
out 7 spot 0051 against the US dollar
still on the weaker side of seven still
though on the stronger side of things
there is the current level on dollar
offshore. Plenty more ahead this is the
[music] China show. Good morning.
>> This [music] week live from the Alpine
mountains of Switzerland is the World
Economic Forum annual meeting in Davos.
Bloomberg Television brings you
unmatched coverage [music] and
conversations with world leaders,
business executives, and billionaires as
they [music] navigate responsible AI
deployment, economic expansion, and
geopolitical tensions.
Tune in for daily coverage all week.
Context changes everything.
>> [music]
>> Right, yeah, there we go Davos blue
skies and butterflies. Smiles from our
colleagues. You can trust the smiles
remain blue skies that's a question mark
around retirement over the weekend and
because of that futures are pointing
lower ahead of the open 11 minutes away
here.
>> Yeah, I think the whole kind of sell
America sort of you know, trade is back
on in some ways. You're seeing that
being really helping the whole precious
metals sort of trade once again and
yeah, you're starting to see the yen and
Swiss franc rally on the back of that
haven bid. Certainly going to be one
thing to watch here as we deal with this
China open given that we are just
moments away from some key data for
December to drop really so and the
fourth quarter
GDP numbers and the like. Oh, tracking
of course what these Chinese houses are
doing, right? You know, are they
searching for higher yielding
investments? We were talking about the
roughly $7 trillion in time deposits
that come due this year. For more on
this, bring in our Asia equities
reporter, Charlotte Yang. She's been
tracking, of course, where this cash
pile is going here right now.
>> Yes, so we're looking at this huge pool
of money, as you mentioned, around 7
trillion of deposits that will come due
this year. You know, in the past,
Chinese households, mom and pops,
they're usually putting in the banks
because because of, you know, the
struggling property market, also stocks
didn't return. But as now the deposit
rate are slipping to 1%, investors are
looking at where they should be putting
their money. And we're already seeing
some of their money going into equities,
gold,
investment products, wealth management
products, as well as insurance policies.
And um for equities, you know, a lot of
market watchers feel like this really
could be what's helping to drive the
rally further, you know, given that it
has already been a lot of strong
equities so far. But was But this kind
of Even if you do don't go directly into
equities, you have insurance policy,
they do have underlying stocks, as well
as wealth management products for that.
And And I think this also ties to the
broader expectations for the
authorities. They want to, you know, to
have this a stronger capital market that
could help support the body economy, as
well.
>> Mhm. And it underscores the importance
of having the bull market remain a bull
market, right? And when you look at
what's happened this year, it's still
tech that's really led amidst the
broader economic weakness.
>> Yes, I think this enthusiasm over, you
know, home-grown technology has been the
biggest catalyst since April. And you
know, we're heading to the one-year
anniversary since deep sea ground of the
global market. And so far, Chinese tech
is still going so strong at stronger
start of this year than US tech. You
know, we have an onshore gauge that's up
more than 10% in Hong Kong, that's up
6%. And um even the valuations now, it's
getting more expensive in some specific
cases, you have Cambricon that's trading
at, I think, over 100 forward times PEs.
But because you're having so much, you
know, real technology progress. And so
investors so far are still very
positive. And also, you have deep stake
that will be expected to release a new
model this quarter. And also, more
details coming for China's five-year
plan in March that will expected to also
highlight how important tax
self-reliance is. So, those are the
catalysts for tech.
>> Yeah, that's that's that's crazy. Look
at that. Beer ends up 95% and we're not
even at the 20th of
>> [laughter]
>> of January.
>> I mean, we we reached the halfway mark
of the month. Yeah. But, these are
things you would see maybe like
year-end?
>> Yeah.
>> Mid-year? Um so, yes. As as Charlotte
mentioned there, right? It seems like
this is really
separated from and divorced from the
fundamentals once again, thanks to our
Charlotte Yang there, Asia Equities
reporter. In terms of what we're looking
at the pre-market here right now, we are
expected to see a retreat when it comes
to risk assets like stocks here today,
given of course this Greenland issue
over the weekend. And so, now we are
seeing the pre-market and Hang Seng down
[music] 200 points here right now.
Futures are in negative territory here
this morning.
>> [music]
>> Uh was it Alanis Morissette 1996?
>> aged yourself.
>> Isn't it ironic that something called
Greenland is leading to something that
is Greenland across these markets
[laughter] today? But, that is the
reality we're in and it's really set the
stage for Davos this week.
>> Yeah. Um
it it's it's going to be very
interesting what I mean, this is going
to be of course the Europe's event,
right? And the president of the US is
going to be facing them
face-to-face. To be a fly on the wall on
some of these sort of engagements is
going to be a key thing to watch here.
One Interestingly enough, you're seeing
the euro actually catch a bid
against, you know, these escalatory sort
of threats from uh president when it
comes to tariffs as well, but certainly
going to be watching very closely that
European open here today could be a bit
of a rough one. Uh US markets though,
given that it is also on a holiday, so
you're not going to see the same sort of
volumes uh as of normal. So, certainly
that's going to be one to watch. I also
we're watching, of course, a lot of data
coming through from China, too.
>> Yeah, and in about 5 minutes, we're
going to get the home price numbers
coming out. And since the broader trend
really has been since mid-2023 of
contraction, we'll see what that number
looks like, the latest one coming up. On
your screens as of November, that's the
blue circle you see on your screens. Uh
as we were pointing out, futures are
pointing to some weakness going into the
open today, so we're looking at 8/10 of
1%. 200 points south on the Hang Seng
index, 40 points on A50 futures, a
quarter of 1% as far as the early
indications are are concerned here.
>> Yep, could be a rough one here if you're
long these risk assets here, and
certainly going to be one thing to watch
is the tech space. It looks like that is
quite vulnerable here this morning.
HSTECH is already down about 7/10 of 1%.
In terms of analyst actions to tell you
about, there's some keynotes when it
comes to, you know, the metal space,
which is going to be interesting to
watch as well. Uh Jingdong Industrials
rated a new buy at UBS. Chalco A&H
shares raised to outperform at CICC,
just given the massive rally we've seen
in aluminum and the like here. Jingdong
Industrials also rated a new buy at
Goldman. That really dovetails back
into, of course, uh what the stock
reaction is so far. Let's see if there
is any. Um not too much, but Chalco is
slightly up this morning. We're watching
the EV space in particular here, just
given, of course, what we saw between
China and Canada, what they announced
when it comes to this new auto plan to
favor firms with Canadian plants as
well. Some have said BYD could [music]
be a clear beneficiary, according to
some of the analysts out there. Here,
we're seeing BYD shares up more than 1%,
and casino VIP gaming revenue rising for
the fourth quarter to the highest we've
seen in about 5 years or 7 years, let's
just say. But, we're seeing [music] a
mixed picture across the board. The open
is next.
>> [music]
>> Good Monday morning. Welcome back to the
program. We're counting down to the open
of cash markets here. As you can see,
it's not going to be a strong one at the
open. And so, we can blame geopolitics
for rearing uh its ugly head again
today. This flight [music] back into
havens, precious metals, yen, and yen
and the franc. Uh in a couple of seconds
as well, we'll have something more to
talk about in the form of Chinese
economic numbers. This one is the home
price [music] numbers coming out in 20
seconds.
>> Yeah, so quite a few headwinds ahead,
really, when it comes to the geopolitics
of things as we count down to Davos. And
of course, this data dump, [music]
uh which is likely could show some more
weakness when it comes to the fourth
quarter and how we wrapped up 2025 as
well. Just given us as [music] Steve
mentioned, strong base effect certainly
is going to be uh one key factor here to
deal with when it comes to that. But new
home prices should be coming into your
inbox [music] and your terminal screens
pretty soon. But right now, we are
seeing it is a bit of a down drift lower
here when it comes to onshore equities,
where you have Shanghai composite. We're
we're floating around that 4,000
psychological level here right now and
lower by about a third of 1%. Uh in
terms of commodities, we continue to see
when it comes to some of these metals
that were quite hot coming off and
cooling a little bit as well. Copper,
iron ore certainly are seen down about
2.6%, but Shanghai crude seems to be
flat this morning. Uh we're we're
watching very closely what happens with
some of the large caps as well. Looks
like we are in the get-go here. Uh not
too much conviction here. Flip the
boards and see how Hong Kong is doing
cuz we did see maybe more pronounced
moves in the pre-market, and we are
lower by about 8/10 of 1% now. Uh when
it comes to Hang Seng, HS Tech is on
offer, and you are seeing with the
exception of Baidu, seems like most of
these kind of big tech plays are to the
downside here today. 2.7% lower for
Alibaba. Meituan's also down by about
1%. The fix was
still above seven, which was interesting
as well. But we are seeing here still
some persistent strength when it comes
to the Chinese currency. We're hovering
on that 696 level here this morning. The
property space certainly going to be key
focus here as we count down to this new
home price data as well. But as Dave
mentioned, right, this whole issue about
Greenland and the rising tensions
across, you know, transatlantic sort of
nations between the US and its European
allies.
Does that mean more of a reason to kind
of sell out of real assets, right? Into
some of the precious metals and the
metals itself, right? Just given what we
saw on Friday, that interesting scoop
that we have about what the trading
firms and what they were dealing with
when it comes to data servers as well.
That did cool down the commodities
futures markets and and and on Friday.
But looks like right now this whole
Greenland issue has reignited, of
course, a lot of these sort of trades
once again. Shanghai gold mining, for
example, is up some 1%. Hunan Silver,
though, is heading the opposite
direction. But yeah, gold also hitting a
record here this morning, Dave.
>> Yeah, okay.
This one and I think there's one or two
other names, of course, flagging yet
again what is largely, anyway, within
the sort of possibility of expectations
here. Another loss here for for for
Longi Green Energy, down about 3%. Okay,
to the home price numbers coming
through. All right, do you want the good
or you want the bad spin?
Let me start off with the bad so we end
on a good note. So, still
in contraction in terms of on aggregate,
70 cities month and month, it's still a
negative number
of negative 0.37%. Now, in context, that
is and here's the positive spin, right?
We are coming off
um
steeper declines in previous months. So,
the November of the October print was
negative half of 1%. This November came
in at negative 0.39. This is at negative
0.37. So, not as bad, but certainly
still consistent with the broader trend
uh, we're seeing across this market. And
it's largely expected this will remain
the weaker weakest spot across this this
recovery, I guess.
>> Yeah, and really we we haven't seen much
of a change. At least not a meaningful
one in the past few years as well. Um,
so that is certainly one thing that we
deal with here. When you talk to a lot
of the analysts that this is still going
to be, of course, that weak pillar. Uh,
but having said that, it still remains
to be a very hot sort of Chinese market.
Let's bring in Wendy Liu, chief China
equity strategist at JP Morgan. It's
been a very good start to the year for
Chinese equities here.
Um, how are you looking at it? And and
are you surprised by sort of the surge
that we've seen in optimism?
>> Um, I think it's in line with our
expectation. We saw, you know, from
October onward it's going to have a
pullback. And then the, uh, pivot back
to growth came in a little bit earlier.
We saw late December, early Jan. I think
it started in early December. So, we're
going back to the growth mode. We were
doing
into value. Now we're doing the rotation
into growth. And looking at the JP
Morgan quantitative macro indicator and
how the style's been trading, I think
we're good to go for most of this year
in the growth zone, which is
quarter-over-quarter, year-over-year
momentum picking up. And we've seen
earnings revision by 1% since
mid-December for MSCI China, uh, both in
'25 and '26. So, I think we're okay.
We're back to the growth zone.
>> Hm. What leads the earnings recovery?
>> Mm, by sector, materials is a big one.
We also see communications services. I
think AI is helping to lower costs. And
then the metals pricing also helped.
Although we see healthcare taking a bit
of a hit for 2026 earnings estimate, but
it's too far out. If there are good
innovations coming through, I'm sure
it's
>> But because they're they're too
optimistic the earnings, just on on a
note on that?
>> Yes.
>> On healthcare?
>> Yeah.
>> How should investors look at this,
right? You talk about how quickly these
rotations play out and then they
reverse. It's hard for anyone to really
kind of come in and and really chase any
sort of rally here right now. How how
how are some of these you know
positioning it looking at
this Chinese market now, especially some
of the long only funds?
>> Yeah, we discussed this a little while
ago and this being very difficult. So,
we relying a bit more on the technical
indicators. Whether it's being oversold
or overbought and so by on December, all
the indices for MS related to MSCI China
and CSI 300 onshore markets became quite
oversold. Okay? So, that's got to be an
indicator.
And we do see the macro
monthly data becoming quite nimble. When
things are heated up, I we can see a
pattern of stimulus easing off a bit.
Things are softening, we can see that
picking up.
So, that sort of coincide with our macro
indicator.
When it's risk off, people go for
defensive and value. And when it's risk
on,
it's, you know, IT, healthcare,
discretionary, communication services,
materials. So, we can look to the rhythm
in technicals,
macro data, and style to give us a
sense. Yeah.
>> To give us a sense what does the next
few weeks look like ahead of, you know,
Chinese Lunar New Year and then you have
the two sessions, too. Does that does
that momentum continue?
>> I think that momentum continues.
>> Okay.
>> And there is one hurdle which is with
the upcoming
earnings results. And we could see some
sectors are clearly setting up pretty
high hurdles for clearing 4Q earnings,
particularly for A shares like IT and A
shares, healthcare in both A and H. But
given those growth sectors, people will
be able to look over it more easily. And
I think for the C M Y or L M Y, the key
is looking at consumption. There are
mandates calling for designing and
implementing measures to lift household
income. So, let's see what happens on
that front. And I think that happens
it's going to be good for discretionary
and then also for staples.
>> Uh in terms of valuations, how are you
looking at that right now? Cuz the IT
space we were just talking about, you
know, with our colleague Charlotte about
Cambricon is like 90 plus or even 100
times earnings here right now. What part
of the market do you think is looking
too stretched and what still looks
undemanding?
>> Overall, it's not stretched. 12.5 times,
you know, 0.4% standard deviation above
the 10-year mean. It's right there. And
you're looking at the growth and the
size of the market and what money could
be coming in from offshore and then
coming out of from the deposits in the
banking system, I don't think it's
stretched. Asia is a little bit more
expensive, 16.5 times. And within that
market, the most expensive slice,
clearly, is the GPU localization place.
And we look at semiconductors,
semiconductor equipment, it was trading
as high as four standard deviation above
the 10-year mean on PS, okay?
Back in October. It came down to two and
went back to 2.7 to three. So, now,
onshore is willing to hold that kind of
valuation for the eventual
materialization of the revenue pickup.
So, it might be a consolidation
on the high end, but, you know, it is
clearly a big upside vis-a-vis
historical PS.
>> Yeah, the the the eventual realization
there seems to be something that people
are trying to understand when. Well, my
question there is because those are
really outperforming. People are trying
to figure out, first, who are these
names? And if we know who these names
are, what's the track record? Is there a
way to extrapolate future earnings? How
much do we know about these these sort
of fresh up-and-comers that are suddenly
raising money not just here in Hong Kong
but on also on the mainland?
>> I I think point one, I think the Hong
Kong market would want to see quarterly
numbers. A share market is probably more
willing to hold them for structural
upside.
>> Okay.
>> Okay. And there are really several
kinds. One is the real the ones that
related to the global AI hardware. Um so
optical modules, uh PCB, etc. There's
also
um the semi GPU names and that's where I
think people want to see when the
volume's going to ramp.
>> Right. Is it
>> Right.
>> Uh now, is it first half? Is it second
half? I think the ramping of the revenue
will give people more confidence,
although I think a lot of the
structurally positive money will be
staying in there. Um but then it also be
fluctuating a bit given the style shift.
>> Understood.
>> Okay, so you're thinking at least MSCI
China could outperform CSI first first
quarter, but then onwards is there more
preference towards A shares or
>> I think
I would think A has become more stable.
Yeah. Uh the volatility has come down
quite significantly
uh vis-a-vis '14 and '15.
Uh H actually has become more volatile.
And so I think H um on the up upswing,
uh H should outperform, I would think.
>> What Why do you
>> thing that is and is there a sort of
policy overlay
uh in terms of why the A share market
seems to be more behaved now than Hong
Kong at least recently, right? Since
about November.
>> So So that's a very fair question. I
think the A share institutional money
has been more stable like the national
fund and then also the insurance fund.
And so it's giving
uh these indices, the big indices, a
pillar holder, CSI 300. Uh when the
retail goes into participate, they like
the small mid caps. So, we think H
outperform A, which is CSI CSI 300, but
mid cap onshore will outperform CSI 300.
More of the trading is going to be the
smaller mid cap. And so, it would be
natural to see more money wanting to put
participate in onshore small mid cap.
>> How How should I be looking at some of
the things everyone talked about last
last year like new consumption? Like
that cooled down a bit.
>> Oh, yeah. What happened to that?
>> In December, do you think that there's
more cooling or the structural shifts
that we're seeing among consumers,
right? More experience, sort of
lifestyle and the like. Is that still
something that's going to keep those
themes alive?
>> Right. Right. Right. I think the
consumption
shift is still there. Experience base,
some of the proxies have fallen in
valuation, so people are sensitive to
see if there's a ceiling. Okay? And how
much can the revenue and earnings go?
So, consumption is not like tech. It
won't be explosive per se. So, I think
people are just more mindful of delivery
and multiples.
Some of the new consumption names have,
you know, corrected in multiples and you
know, as so long as we're in the growth
cycle, that should bode well.
And on staples, we are mindful. People
are more careful about the quality of
food.
>> Yeah.
>> Higher protein, so that bodes well for
selected protein segments. And we also
will see that in the US release of the
healthy diet lately, right?
>> That's a good thing.
>> Yeah. So, so I think the the trend is
probably catching up.
>> [laughter]
>> And so, I think that might also have an
implication because these trends can
catch up globally. Yeah.
>> Right. A final question for you. People
keep pointing to liquidity conditions
remaining
favorable for the for the market. Is
that an assumption we can continue to
make for this year.
>> I think for Q1, we can see that. I would
think it's more about earnings.
Liquidity is going to follow earnings.
>> Okay.
>> Um and whereas liquidity ran ahead of
self, we found um things take a pause
either on the macro data or on some of
the regulations. Regulation could get a
little bit more sort of a uh focus
what's going on. Um so, I do think there
are two positive optionality for the
year. Uh one is property easing could be
greater than expected. Like tier one
property could really use additional uh
easing in terms of purchase restriction.
And I think, you know, prime property in
CDB, that will attract buying. And the
other thing I think it's on stable.
Stable's relatively cheap visa-vis
history. Um and a renewed focus on
quality of food and some names should
benefit. Yeah.
>> Okay. Yeah, Wendy. Nice to see you.
Happy New Year. Hi to the team first.
Let's do this again. Wendy Leo there,
chief China equity strategist at at JP
Morgan. A reminder that we are set to
get
and we're about to break some
backward-looking numbers.
GDP, of course, but that is of course
the base at which we extrapolate the
year. Uh if we get a certain number, 5%,
it makes that doable, of course, coming
through in the next hour as well to help
us unpack
those back and forward-looking
indicators. Uh ANZ chief greater China
economist will be joining us once the
numbers drop uh
across the Bloomberg terminal and
elsewhere. Okay, um the benchmarks are
looking not very good. In fact, we've
now tacked on the losses. They're about
1.1, 300 points on the Hang Seng index.
Uh developers are down. We just got the
home price numbers coming through as
well. And Hang Seng tech, uh which has,
by the way, been the outperformer as far
as the benchmarks go. They're about 1.3
in the first 14 minutes of trade.
>> And here's a look, of course, at what
else we're looking at as well. Um
developers are are really getting hit uh
this morning maybe on the back of some
of the home price data. [music] In fact,
Country Garden uh is down close to 9% or
so. Uh so, watch out for the rest of the
day. This is Bloomberg.
>> Welcome back. You're watching the China
show. Yeah, this was the post coming out
of the US president [music] which is
really leading to why markets are hands
trading in that way. So, you're looking
at defense stocks in focus. You look at
precious metals bid. You look at haven
assets bid. Risk assets are generally
off including the dollar. So, when you
have both those things happening
simultaneously, it's really not a good
day to be
good day for risk specifically.
President Trump uh has said that he
would impose fresh tariffs on eight
European nations tied to his Greenland
ambitions. Joining us now from
Washington is William Reinsch, senior
advisor at the Center for Strategic and
International Studies. He's also served
as under secretary of commerce under the
Clinton uh White House. Uh good morning,
sir. I
Thank you for taking the time off your
Sunday evening. We appreciate it. The
The first thing that came to mind is
didn't the US to strike a trade deal
with Europe? How do we need to be
looking at new tariffs on the back of
something that is barely months old?
>> Well, you're right. It's It's not only
uh barely months old. It's not been
approved yet by the Europeans and I
I think this latest demand is probably
stopped that in its tracks.
Uh the message for Europe and actually
for everybody including Asian countries
is that I think with with uh President
Trump, deals are never final.
You know, he'll make an agreement and
then he decides he gets irritated at
something or he decides he wants more,
he'll
ride over the previous agreement and
come back and make more demands. So,
nothing is ever finished and so we find
ourselves in perpetual negotiations.
This will be a particularly difficult
one because it's hard to see a way out.
>> Mhm.
Hard to see a way out. Um
can you tell me I mean I'm we're still
trying to figure out why why the
president has his sights on Greenland?
What do you think the commitment towards
taking over this this Arctic territory?
>> Well, it's a great mystery. Uh
most of the American people think it's a
bad idea
uh and they certainly think it's a bad
idea to to
send the military in.
Um nobody quite understands uh
what his motivation is. There's an old
treaty that dates back 70 years that
gives our military extensive access to
Greenland.
Uh we don't really need any more access.
Um I think the operating assumption is,
you know, he's a
he's a real estate guy. He's a builder.
He wants to own things.
Uh and he doesn't
you know, he doesn't like things that
are short of an ownership and so in this
particular case, that's what he wants
and um
the sellers don't want to sell
um and he doesn't seem to want to do
anything but buy
uh and so that's that's an impasse and
so he's doing what he always does
uh which is to make big demands,
outrageous demands, big threats, in this
case more tariffs
uh and then wait to see what the other
side does.
Um historically, uh if the other side
pushes back,
uh he often retreats or he retreats in
part. Um so we'll see if he does that
this time.
>> Yeah, cuz I'm curious whether he leans
into the pressure here, William. You
know, and something that we've noticed
fairly consistently, but not across the
board, is the US president tends to lean
on pressure if it's
against his allies, ironically enough.
And if it's against rivals like China
and Russia, he he tends to pick his
battles and sidesteps those battles. And
I wonder how far you think he is going
to push the Europeans for this? And do
you think it'll come at the expense of
of NATO, you think?
>> Um
it'll either come at the expense of NATO
or the expense of the EU. Um I thought
for because he's only imposing tariffs,
you know, on on uh seven of the
countries, including the UK,
uh which is an effort really to to
uh
break open the EU because he's treating
different countries in it differently.
Um and
their challenge is to stay together, uh
even though some of them are not
impacted by this. It'll be interesting
to see what they do.
Um
it's hard to say what what he will do.
There there's growing pushback
in the United States and in the US
Congress
against some of these things. Uh
they're starting to be some votes. Um
there it's quite possible that uh the US
Supreme Court will rule
the tariffs like these um
uh illegal uh on Tuesday,
uh January 20th.
Um we'll see. It's uh
it's that's the next day they're going
to make rulings. If they rule against
the president on the tariffs he
announced last year,
uh these new ones will go down with it
because it's he's probably using the
same law.
Um
so, they could be short-lived. Um
he does tend to back off when there's
resistance.
Um but I think in this case the
resistance would have to come from
Europe. Um there will be objections in
Congress. They may pass a resolution. Uh
but no sign of that yet, but you know,
it was the weekend.
But uh the real question will be if the
Europeans stand up to him and and use
some of the tools they've got to push
back.
>> Yeah, this anti-coercion instrument,
that's sort of the the one tool that the
French president certainly wants to
deploy. How big of a stick is that? In
this whole fight you think, Will?
>> Well, it's never been used, so it's hard
and it's not that it hasn't been around
that long. It's hard to tell um
uh how big a stick it is.
And uh the first challenge will be
getting countries that are not affected
by the latest threat to agree to do
something because to use a stick you
need to have uh I think unanimity
um in the EU, so you have to get the
other countries involved. Um they could
uh they actually uh I think as I recall
uh in dollar terms buy more of our stuff
as a as a whole unit, the EU
buys more American exports than than
anybody else.
Um each single country is not our
biggest trading partner, but as a unit
uh they're a huge uh market for the
United States. So, if they start to cut
that off, it would have an economic
impact here, no question about it. Um
and the tariffs that Trump has
announced
uh will have a price impact here.
So, uh there's no good news here, you
know, uh
if people uh stick to their positions
and right now it looks like they're
going to, uh we could be heading for at
least an economic confrontation.
Um I hope it doesn't lead to the uh
end of NATO. That would be bad for
a whole for a whole bunch of reasons. It
probably would be bad for Ukraine. It
would be bad for Europe. Um and it would
certainly be bad for the way other
people in the world think about the
United States.
>> Uh William, final question for you,
maybe just to take the other side of the
argument. Uh
is there
a method to the madness do you think? Is
there Is there an upside that is very
just just difficult to
uh to see at this point. Very quickly
though.
>> Well,
uh
it's not a it's it's not unusual for him
to make an outrageous demand and then
back off. The problem in this case is
that, you know, we've already got
access. We've already got what he says
he wants.
Uh and so the real the only question
he's put forward is ownership. And
that's hard to compromise, you know? You
either own it or you don't.
>> Mhm.
>> So, in this case, um I'm not sure that
the the traditional approach of his is
uh is going to be practiced. He may not
end up backing off.
>> William, thank you so much for the time.
William Reinsch there, senior advisor at
the Center for Strategic and
International Studies in Washington. And
we have much more analysis coming up on
the US efforts to seize Greenland. The
director of the Center for Arctic
Security and Resilience at the
University of Alaska joining us on
Insight with Haas. All right, a reminder
of that we're set to see of course that
data dump coming through in about
less than 6 minutes time as well. So,
certainly that's the key thing to watch
in the next hour. You're watching The
China Show.
>> [music]
>> Welcome back to The China Show. Top of
this hour is of course first and
foremost that data dump that's set
[music] to really be unleashed in your
terminals here. And certainly one thing
to watch is of course that fourth
quarter [music] GDP number for China,
right? Likely to be maybe 4.5% according
to consensus. Would that take us to that
5% sort of threshold when it comes to
2025 annual growth and reaching that
target? Looks set to be the case
according to what consensus estimates
are right now. But we got to break it
down further too to see what December
unfell or what happened basically.
>> Yeah, in terms of the activity numbers,
right? So the a 4 and 1/2% number and
we'll find out in 10 seconds actually
gets you to 5% because of the look you
know, the growth that we had in the
early 2025. Okay, I'm just looking at my
terminals because we should be getting
the numbers anytime now. Okay, so why
don't I take growth and
you know what?
In line really there's really nothing
much more to say on growth. It's 4 and
1/2% 4Q which as we were pointing out
that takes you to 5% on the
on the full year number. Seasonally
adjusted Q-on-Q is 1.2% slightly higher
of course and what you don't get here
on the surface at least is the deflator
number which I'm curious on because that
sort of gives you an indicator of
inflationary pressures and sort of the
output gaps.
What what else are you seeing?
>> Yeah, so in terms of the December data,
retail sales that was a slight miss and
a slowdown. 0.9%
for retail sales. Also when it comes to
industrial production, that one was
actually better than expected 5.2%
but fixed asset investment, these are
the year-to-date numbers. We are seeing
a negative print of 3.8%. So that is
worse than expected as well. So
certainly that could be the key thing. I
mean the key thing we've been watching
of course investment that has basically
collapsed all of last year.
>> Yeah, which I guess it's perhaps one of
the best indicators of future potential,
right? When you get that investment
coming in. Let's get the instant
reaction. Joining us here on set is
Raymond Yeung, chief greater China
economist at ANZ. So your initial
reaction to the numbers and among the
many that we mentioned, what do you
think is the most important?
>> I look at the FAI number. The fixed
asset investment is perhaps the worst in
history since since I've observed this
data back in from 1998. This is the
first negative
figures.
>> Wow.
>> So, you can see how bad
>> Outside of COVID?
>> Outside of COVID.
>> No, even including COVID for the two
years,
the number was still positive.
>> it? Okay.
>> across the whole year.
It was a a drop.
In terms of I don't have the nominal GDP
growth number
because I'm sitting in the state studio,
but I expect that this would also be one
of the worst in terms of nominal growth.
Maybe since 1976.
[laughter]
Except COVID. This one is
except COVID.
>> Okay.
>> This is the absolute number of output.
>> Yeah.
>> Nominal, okay. Okay.
>> Apparently, if you look at the fourth
quarter number, you know, the momentum
dropped a lot in the last few months
except maybe some um
rebound in December. Just looking at the
PMI number and also today's industrial
production. Not bad, you know, higher
than 5%.
>> So, what does it mean for for 2026?
What's going to turn around this this
investment story that, you know, this
negative sort of sentiment that we're
seeing when it comes to people?
>> Well, the
the low number in the second half of
last year provide a low base for
comparison. So, just in terms of
headline figures will improve in the
second half of the year, but that tells
us still whether the government's
willing to relax the anti-involution.
And relax some of the pipeline. There's
been a lot of money sitting in the local
government ready to deploy. But then the
sentiment in the second half of last
year started to drop drop a lot because
of anti-involution. Well, I'm looking at
the GDP figures, 4.8% this year. I know
that some of the local governments do
set a very aggressive target. Maybe at
5%. So, this may still be the official
target for the Chinese economy as a
whole, but my worry is not about
headline number, it's about the
distribution. Because now,
if you look at the unemployment number,
too, especially youth unemployment, I
expect it to be a second digit number
still.
I don't have the number for December,
but the November number is 16.9%. It's
higher than the November November number
last year.
Or 2024.
>> Yeah, okay. We're going to try and
effort that
to get you that number.
>> get that today. Um
>> Okay. The headline number is jobless
rate 5.1, which
>> Yeah. Is the same. Yeah.
>> Is that informative to you? Just the
overall number?
>> It is It is very informed. I think this
is very indicative about
the structural changes and future shift
of the economy. GDP is doing quite well,
but what about AI, robots replacing, you
know, the demand for labor and how would
that wait on and drag consumption? So,
you see that retail sales numbers very
very weak. You know,
I can't whether to China can count on
consumption
>> Right.
>> to boost the domestic demand
because they will you know that I think
I believe the export and external
environment is still pretty vulnerable.
>> Mhm. So, you okay, vulnerable.
So, maybe the export side of things,
how does that look for this year then?
You know, people are pointing to maybe
we're finally going to see payback,
things are going to be slower than what
we saw last year, but even the December
numbers for trade
>> Yeah. Very very strong.
>> Very strong. This is structural. I think
China export is structurally strong
because of the super cycle of the
technology and digital economy, the
transformation of the world. This is
still, I believe, is real activity that
drive the China
export because of the electronic supply
chain. It's difficult to be
you know, replace in other economy. Can
they substitute the China supply chain?
It's very difficult.
>> Yeah, you can't, right?
>> And I wonder if
that that structural force, the policy
makers know that is something that will
is consistent.
>> They can rely on.
>> They can rely on. that why they're
holding back on fiscal stimulus or lower
rate cuts? Because that that takes care
of of of growth if not more.
>> Perhaps the headline growth as they
deemed that 5% is
comfortable.
But I do think that the policy
orientation is now become more
structural. You look at the easing or
the monetary easing last week is a
structural approach. They don't do the
broad-based, you know, for other
economies in the property sector
continue to drop a lot, they would have
cut by 100 basis points or 200 basis
points. But for China, 10 basis points
seems to be, you know, already the
standard approach. And also now this
time they only cut for certain interest
rate rather than a broad-based cut. So I
think the policy orientation is becoming
targeting different type of sector. If
they continue consider especially for
2026 is the 15-5 year plan, they want to
push for a tech develop or tech driven
economy. I think that will be more of
the resources and funding will be
pointing towards um
diverted to the tech sector.
>> Okay. As an economist, then what what do
you think is the subscription then for
for for stimulus this year? I mean if if
you had to pick something that they
really need to work on.
>> I I think everything will be very
measured, but I expect that perhaps
I would prefer they
especially for the slowdown of the
property sector cannot last for another
two or three years.
And that
>> Because this is this matters the
cyclical momentum.
The wealth effect continue to be
negative and you can't boost consumption
without a recovery of property prices.
So there's an influential article at the
beginning of the year, Chousher article,
you know, pointing to
maybe signaling a bigger push for
stimulating the property market. So I
would think that perhaps they need to
cut the five-year LPR more than this
the benchmark rate that seven-day repo
rate. We do see the 10 basis point cut,
but perhaps the five-year LPR or the
mortgage rate need to be cut more.
>> I mean, it's been a while since we've
had closer look at what they need to do
on the property market itself, but if
they needed to
boost the market, do you think they
could afford it? And why aren't they
doing it?
>> I think the mindset is still to prevent
any property bubble,
not nationwide,
but for specific location or for
specific
perhaps district within cities. You
know, the China property is not China
property, it's about location, location,
location.
>> Right.
>> And if they see there's a sense that
something still flood with money, your
household deposit is, you know,
you know, massive, you know, in the
banking sector that ready to deploy, if
there is a signal that China is
abandoning the housing is for living,
you know, this type of policy agenda,
then there may be another push for the
property
market and the flood of money into those
sector. This is perhaps not what what
the Chinese government want to do.
>> What about on consumption? One of the
big questions which we've partially
answered this year, big questions last
year was whether or not we get an
extension to the the subsidies and
economic support for for consumers
directly, right? And you mentioned you
alluded to the retail sales number.
How would you describe the Chinese
consumer? Because the if you the
optimist would say
the reason they like deals is because
they're just smart consumers. In other
words, we remove the subsidies, do you
think they'll still purchase by the same
amount? What where are you on that
argument?
>> And I have we we have seen some change
in the consumption or spending behavior,
you know, to
be, you know, in the previously because
of the huge wealthy fact that they all
push for very luxurious item, but now,
you know, they enjoy the life more and
enjoy the quality of life, domestic
travel, taking selfie, that might be,
you know, probably what they want to
spend the money. And to some extent that
boost the data center business or some
of the tech
or the platform business as well. But
then overall, how would that translate
into value added or the consumption
story at the GDP level or the national
nationwide level? I think you know, the
government need to think about that. But
my bottom line is that this type of
consumption subsidies
won't work and it's not sustainable
because you can't change your
your fridge every month. You can't
change your mobile phone every month. So
all you need is still to have a genuine
improvement of consumption appetite and
wealth effect still the major drag at
the moment.
>> Um they've they've always said maybe
that's why they need to keep the
currency strength you know, strength
just given they want to rebalance the
economy back to to domestic demand and
whatnot. Um do do you see sort of value
in
or at least
is is the currency still very much
undervalued?
Um and and do you think there is a
greater tolerance to allow the RMB to
strengthen from here?
>> I think policy of the PBOC is always to
keep the RMB exchange rate stable and
don't want to see a big move, you know,
they are managing the volatility not the
level. But if you ask me that China the
Chinese yuan is actually undervalued
by 2030 is the GDP per capita by
international dollar is only reaching
the US level in 1980. But if you ask me
whether China is lagging behind the US
50 years, no, definitely not. There
might be something wrong in the exchange
rate. So if the Chinese yuan is actually
undervalued all the PBOC can do is to
prevent the yuan to appreciation to
appreciate too fast, not to you know,
not too slow.
>> Raymond, thank you for that. Fantastic.
Raymond Yeung there, chief greater China
economist at ANZ. As we were just
showing you just now the statistics
bureau is currently holding this
briefing on economic numbers to the left
side of your screens and the right side
for our Bloomberg clients. Uh first you
have the numbers that have come through
and some initial context well, context
from our team, and also some
context and content also coming through
out of officials there to do. Of course,
I highly encourage everyone to check
this out, of course, for more context.
We'll have a lot more on the way, of
course, on the China story coming up.
This is Bloomberg.
>> This [music] week, live from the Alpine
mountains of Switzerland, is the World
Economic Forum Annual Meeting [music] in
Davos. Bloomberg Television brings you
unmatched coverage and conversations
with world leaders, business executives,
and [music] billionaires as they
navigate responsible AI deployment,
economic expansion, and geopolitical
tensions.
Tune in for daily coverage all week.
Context changes everything.
>> [music]
>> Right, welcome back. Uh just an update
of these markets cross assets. So, we're
starting to talk with with a look at
metals, and as you can see, the the bid
continues across haven plays. The bounce
maybe a technical bounce
across some of the industrial metals
which sold off on Friday. The latter,
the former, of course, really on the
back of what's been taking place
geopolitically and that haven uh play.
In fact, on the currency markets, it's a
similar dynamic you're seeing with the
yen and the franc. Uh I think it's still
the franc over the yen if you did the
cross there outperforming the rest,
which gives you a sense of the the
aversion uh to risk. I guess that that's
a strong word. I guess to how unexpected
the developments were uh on Greenland
with the post coming out of the
president, new tariffs coming on board.
Uh can we change this, please, and have
a look at currency markets? Thank you so
much. There we go. Uh and of course,
bond markets is really you look at
European futures, bond futures. We focus
on that, oats. And of course, the story
in the 30-year Japanese government bond
is up 10 basis points. That's probably
something we should be talking more
about ahead of the BOJ coming through on
on Friday. Cash markets, I think we're
about 1.1 trillion in terms of turnover
in first 40 minutes of trade,
a fifth of 1% on the Asian benchmark.
We are coming of lows on the Hang Seng
index and we are now in fact up there on
the CSI 300 as you can see on your
screens.
>> Yeah, certainly that's going to be one
to watch where interestingly enough it
seems like the Asian market is still
very much outperforming just as as Dave
mentioned that the turnover there.
And that's despite of course the data
not looking particularly strong when it
comes to what we saw in the fourth
quarter which was in line China GDP of
4.5%
and we have reached that 5% target for
2025 but under the hood in December, you
know, when it comes to fixed asset
investment as Raymond Yeung from ANZ
told us that's the first time we've seen
a negative print ever for that series.
So that certainly is one thing to look
at as well. But that seems like to be
largely telegraphed right now it seems
like the whole AI story still is quite
strong in China. In terms of what we're
watching to in the whole Greenland
effect, of course we talked about the
the flight to havens, the flight to
defense stocks
that still remains intact here. This
morning you take a look at how the some
of these regional players are doing they
are catching a bid here and of course
the kind of sell dollar sort of
narrative continues on as well. Let's
bring in Mark Cutmore, Bloomberg Mlive
executive editor joining us from
Singapore. Mark, obviously you know, our
whole weekend sort of upended just given
what we saw with the Greenland news and
that that post from President Trump. How
do you think investors are treating
this? Is this more a geopolitical shock
or are they looking at something of
actual growth sort of shock that this
could have on the EU and the US now?
>> It it's a major geopolitical shock which
then has ramifications for growth and
markets.
We're We're on a a slightly slow
reaction timetable.
That's for three reasons. One is we've
obviously got the US holiday.
Two, the the normal game plan in such
situations is ultimately a diplomatic
solution and a fudge is found and that
is the still the base case expectation
here that will will kind of won't get
those tariffs imposed. We'll work out
something that kind of works for
everyone.
You know, the the that saying that
pessimists sound smart, optimists make
money. And I think that's kind of the
general base case right now. And the
extra reason we're slow is that because
Trump is going to be in Davos on
Wednesday.
And then so the timeline is that this
may not get resolved till later on in
week. Now, the problem is is that until
it gets resolved, the the risk
aversion's going to increase. This is
you know, people have used the word
unprecedented and I would say that's
probably true in terms of the the
post-World War II era, NATO is being
undermined from within NATO. And that's
quite dramatic and it's been done
publicly. So, it's very very hard.
You've got political alignment across
Europe that they need to kind of react
strongly and stand up to Trump in this
case, which means that their their path
for a diplomatic solution is much more
narrow. So, I think that the the risk
aversion we're seeing in markets will
will stay will remain and perhaps
intensify until we get a resolution. It
makes sense for many people to believe
that ultimately the base case is that
there will be a resolution, but as I
said, there are many risks.
>> Mark, I guess I wanted to ask you about
the Fed, but you just put an idea in my
head. Why why don't we talk about silver
again? That seems to bolster the case
today for silver. It not just
you know, like as a tactical
opportunity, but if if these trends stay
that that seems more like a structural
trade. What what do you think of silver?
>> So, absolutely, David. You know,
precious metals get a boost. All metals
get a boost in this. So, precious metals
get a boost because they want to
diversify
their holdings. They want to get away
from the dollar, but you also want to
get away from the euro and sterling and,
you know, many major currencies. So,
there's not really a fiat alternative
out there. So, you know, you want to go
into real assets cuz you're worried
what's going to happen here and you and
also industrial metals benefit because
ultimately, this is a this is a signal
that, you know, after, you know, decades
and decades of increasing peace around
the world, we're going to to more
dangerous times and ultimately,
countries are being forced to rearm. I'm
not making any dramatic pronouncements
that we're going to have wars or
anything, but people are the complacency
levels are being removed. So, countries
are going to be re-forced to rearm and
industrialize. So, industrial metals get
a boost from that. Real assets get a
boost cuz people want to diversify away
from fiat currencies. Precious metals
gain as a kind of that geopolitical
potential haven. Now, the one catch now
is that that's expected. So, we knew
today that metals would be the big
winners. We We talked about that on an M
Live yesterday before markets reopened.
That's the obvious play. Now, at some
point, if we don't get a resolution,
you worry that people transition from
let's pile into precious metals as a
diversification diversification play as,
you know, geopolitical hedge as a move
to real assets into a let's sell
everything. Let's just de-risk. And that
what happens then is they're going to
take profit on winners. So, I worry that
if we don't get some kind of resolution
in the coming few days, that actually
precious metals suddenly get hit badly.
And And the game plan here has been done
many times before. You saw it in the GFC
where, even though the money printing
from the Fed and central banks around
the world in reaction to the GFC, should
be very positive for gold and were very
positive for gold, it still fell
something like 30% in the instant shock
when markets are kind of selling off
badly. It was the same in COVID. So,
even though you get long-term boosts in
such risk aversion scenarios that are
good for gold and silver, they get hurt
when there's risk aversion because
people sell down winners to cover their
losses.
>> Uh Mark, they mentioned about the Fed.
It's interesting what the president said
is that he he he isn't really want to
lose Kevin Hassett in the White House
and that he may not be a the top
contender really to succeed Jay Powell
here right now. Uh there's been talk of
former Fed governor Kevin Warsh that now
it seems to be leading this race here,
but it seems like there's there's more
uncertainty of who's going to succeed
Jay Powell this year.
How should markets be interpreting this?
>> Uh you know what? We've had such kind of
uh back and forth from Trump on this.
From my point of view, I'm I'm largely
going to ignore it till we get the
decision. You know,
orthodox economics would suggest that
the Fed may not be in much position to
to cut rates at all this year. And in
fact, you know, there there's upside to
yields. Now, we're probably not going to
get an orthodox economics response
because, you know, the the assumption
from markets and from investors is we're
going to get someone who's going to try
to appease Trump and therefore have
easier policy. Uh I I think that doesn't
matter who it is. Ultimately, I think
all this agonizing the last couple of
months over exactly who'll be the Fed
chair is a complete waste of time.
Whoever we get is going to try appeasing
Trump to some degree. Now, how much
might be in debate, but I think let's
just wait for the decision. We know that
economics-wise it's hard to justify uh
the rate cuts that are priced, but it
may not be economics that decides the
rates path.
>> Mark, thank you. As always, Mark
Cudmore, our M Live executive editor in
Singapore for us. Uh just ahead here on
the China show, we're looking at autos
and EVs and the focus certainly of what
2026 looks like as far [music] as price
competition, market share, capacities of
good one to get into with Tina Hou at
Goldman Sachs at this time [music] on
the screens. So, stay tuned for that.
Plenty more ahead. This is the China
show.
>> In some corporate news this morning,
Chinese solar giant Longi warns of
another full-year loss as a solar panel
slump drags on. Expects a net loss of
about 861 [music]
million to 933 million dollars, hit by
weak prices and rising costs. Bloomberg
Intelligence says Longi could rebound
this year as the industry [music] moves
into an upcycle. The company, which is
the largest solar panel maker in China
by market cap, has been facing [music]
overcapacity and pricing competition.
Shares are down 2% this morning. Sequoia
Capital is reportedly planning to join a
25 billion dollar funding round for
Anthropic. That would mean more than
double its valuation. Now, according to
the FT, [music] the round led by
Singapore sovereign wealth fund GIC and
Coatue, values the AI firm at 350
billion. The two lead investors are set
to be contributing [music] 1 and 1/2
billion each. Anthropic has yet to
decide which investors to admit into the
funding round, which may close in a few
weeks.
The Korea Exchange is in talks with
financial authorities to ease rules that
ban high-risk leverage exchange-traded
products. The move aims to draw retail
investors back to [music] the domestic
market and align the framework with
leading international stock markets. The
bourse's CEO told Bloomberg they expect
asset managers to move quickly to list
more leveraged ETFs [music] locally once
the ban is lifted.
>> To get
going
here, we are going to to move forward
with this. Certain legal and regulatory
revisions are required. We are currently
in close consultation with policy
authorities on how far those amendments
should go. As such, it is difficult for
me to give a definitive timeline at this
stage, but I believe these measures are
likely to be institutionalized in the
near future.
>> All right, we're going to go into very
quickly a round up of these markets,
precious metals, we'll talk about chips,
and then food
before we wrap things [music] up here.
So, just on precious metals for obvious
reasons, we are looking at mostly gains
across the equity space, gold and silver
are bid quite substantially. We're also
looking at chips on the back [music] of,
if you think about it, similar dynamic
remarks coming through out of Howard
Lutnick
on the chip makers, right? Pay 100%
tariffs or build in America.
>> [music]
>> 11:29 a.m. in Tokyo, Japanese markets
are going to that lunch break in just a
moment, but it is a risk-off session in
Tokyo today just given, of course, the
geopolitical tensions that are rising
between the EU and the US. Greenland,
obviously, is in the forefront of all of
that here as well. So, you are seeing
the Nikkei 225 down some 1%. The yen is
actually catching a haven, Ben, so we're
sub-158
levels here right now. So, that
certainly is going to be quite
interesting. Of course, keep in mind the
BOJ is also meeting at the end of this
week as well, and you also have, of
course, the the election uncertainty and
whatever happens does that actually
dampen the pressure for the BOJ in some
ways to hike rates. That certainly is
going to be a key question, but look at
what we're seeing when it comes to the
yield space as well. You're still seeing
the long end of the curve selling off,
and the melt-up in yields continues,
Dave.
>> Yeah, we're really going to look ahead
to the BOJ, right? So, consensus is as
Wans was pointing out. Let's have a
look, please, at the week ahead as we
discuss that. So, consensus is no
change. We know they are going to raise
interest rates, right? It's really how
they maintain that optionality without
giving away
the meeting in terms of the guidance
coming through,
not to mention, of course, how that
affects the currency base and the tone
in which they say that. Anyway, just has
to say, of course, yields and rates have
been
uh picking up substantially.
The other big thing, of course, is just
to backtrack a little bit from this this
calendar is really what's taking begins
today.
I would say as one this morning at the
highlight for Davos would be the speech.
>> Yeah.
>> And what they Given what's happening in
Europe.
>> Yeah, you know, this is a very European
sort of event, right? And the fact that
you the US president is going to be
making a speech there in the middle of
the week, you know, it's going to be
very interesting to see what he says
about this whole Greenland issue. How
far is the Trump administration really
going to go in trying to take and seize
Greenland here. You know, you're seeing
protests on the ground, you're seeing
what it comes to the EU allies as well.
They're having emergency meetings this
week to discuss what options are in
terms of retaliation. Is this now the
moment, that inflection point for the EU
to to come together and fight against
this threat of of more tariffs. After
you just mentioned, the ink is still
drying, I guess, when it comes to this
trade deal, but you know, the European
Parliament hasn't even quite signed it
off on it yet, right? So, certainly,
that could be the where we are seeing um
a backtrack um of things. And certainly,
you know, is this the new low that we've
seen in transatlantic relations? That's
certainly going to be the case. Um but
yeah, you take a look at how European
markets might unfold here today on this
Monday morning. Keep in mind, US markets
are closed for Martin Luther King Day.
Um so, liquidity is going to be an
issue. Maybe some of these moves are a
bit outsized, but you are seeing already
when it comes to bond futures, they are
moving here this morning. Um and
certainly, we'll see how you know,
stocks are going to react.
>> Yeah, in fact, I'm going to ask my
producers, sorry, this is a last-minute
request. Can we get the stocks
uh futures up because that's also quite
telling as far as how they're probably
going to trade poorly
>> Yeah.
>> uh going into the session today, right?
So, I think everything from DAX futures
were really the standout to the
downside. Uh Euro Stoxx 50 futures are
also trading quite poorly uh going into
the Monday session today. So, thank you
so much. There we go. Uh on your
screens, we're down about 1%. Something
to watch as we uh go into the thick of
things this Monday. Right, uh just to
pivot back here to the Asia Pacific in
the EV sector uh specifically and when
you look at how things have done and at
some point over the next few weeks we do
enter
earning season. So, this today we're
better on BYD. There's really not much
there
as far as everything else uh on the
price move itself. But, the question
really for this year is to what extent
competition shows up, how many new
NEV models are up and coming, what's the
new capacity number as far as the the
amount of capacity domestically and
offshore that these car makers and OEMs
put in place
and what do they do with all that cash
they're sitting on? I think it's a
something like 80 billion in net cash
across the OEMs. Uh if that statistic is
wrong, Tina Hou, our next guest, will
correct me for that. Uh she's with
Goldman Sachs China Autos analyst. Tina,
happy happy New Year. Hope it's not
really too late to say that.
Uh yeah, what what do we get started
with just the as we look at 2026,
how do you think the uh the competition
story evolves this year if if at all?
>> Yeah, I would say it's going to be
another year of very fierce competition.
So, according to our database, uh last
year there were around 120 new EV models
launched into the market. This year, uh
that same number still holds. So, if you
look at all the OEMs, they're still very
aggressive in terms of new model launch.
And then based on our conversation with
the auto companies, uh all of them
except except expect double-digit volume
growth uh for their company this year.
But, what's interesting is that when you
uh talk to them about uh what's their
view on the market, they are relatively
they all share very conservative uh
outlook for the market from down 5%
year-over-year to up 1% year-over-year.
But, then they still expect all of them
expect double-digit volume growth for
their own company. So, that definitely
implies very intense competition this
year.
>> Double-digit growth in volumes, what
does that mean for pricing? They started
a new round of price cuts. You've had
regulators say warning of severe
penalties if they continue to come up
with these discounts and and incentives.
How should I be looking at pricing
strategies for this year, too?
>> Right, that's I think a very very tough.
But, at the end of the day, I would say
the price will eventually be decided by
the market, by the supply-demand
dynamic, rather than forcing a specific
price
on a specific car model. So, but that
being said,
what the government is definitely
putting more and more monitoring on the
sticker price of the cars. So, we might
be less likely to see just direct price
slash or price cut. But, there are
obviously other ways to offer more
competitive models, for example, offer
more features, longer range, faster
charging, more autopilot features, and
then at the same price.
So, that's another sort of effective
price cut, but not necessarily direct
one.
>> What about profitability trends? And
I mean, do we see
a bigger portion of the pie? And it's a
growing pie, too, in terms of the number
of OEMs, right? From the year prior to
last year.
Just in terms of which car makers are
actually selling above cash cost.
>> Right. So, we created this consolidation
tracker about 1 and 1/2 years ago. And
in our latest update,
we see that still more than 50% of the
OEMs are operating above cash cost.
However, as an industry, the industry as
a whole, we are seeing declining cash
profit from the second quarter of last
year down 1% and in the third third
quarter last year, it's actually
exacerbated to down 10% year-over-year.
So, we believe that effectively the
domestic industry profit is
getting declining. It's being sort of
like this
destroyed with all of these ongoing
price competition. At the same time, we
do expect the demand to slow down
probably down about 1 to 2% in the
domestic market. So,
that means that we do think that maybe
this year export or the overseas market
could be the bright spot. And then OEMs
will look to focus more and more on the
export on the overseas market to help to
stabilize and even grow their profit.
>> Yeah, I was going to ask you about the
export side of things cuz some some good
news came through
the last few weeks where there was
Europe.
You know, they're considering maybe
putting a minimum price in replace of
tariffs with with China. And then you
have the Canada deal where basically
they were at before or matching the US
with a 100% tariffs and now you're
talking about single digits of four auto
exports from China. How big of a deal
are these sort of two, you know,
announcements here? And and should we
expect those margins to stay quite
strong then?
>> Mhm.
Indeed. Um European market is about uh
14-15 million market uh annual sales
annual sales compared to about 23
million in China and and about 17-18
million in the US. So, it's the third
largest is very sizable. Uh and then the
Canadian market is relatively smaller,
but it's about about 1.5 to 2 million
units each year. Uh but I do think that
both the European China deal the
agreement to replace the previous tariff
uh by the so-called guidance price is
definitely a positive development. And
then obviously Canada opening up now
with a quota of 49,000 units, but then
going forward it could could expand. I
think it's a signal of a better and
better improving access for China
EVs in the overseas market. And if we
look at the profit the pricing and
profit
profitability overseas, it's several
times
what the automakers can make in China.
But that doesn't mean they're making
access profit because if you
compare their overseas profit
to the Japanese makers overseas profit,
it's actually similar or even lower than
them.
>> Tina, we alluded to the cash pile that
as a group the OEMs have have have
effectively what they're sitting on on
the balance sheet. Uh
does that amount tell you anything about
I don't know whether whether it's capex
plans or
or or buybacks or the ability for them
to actually
ride out competition.
>> Right, exactly. I think that's another
major reason that we're still seeing
capacity expansion. So for the first
three quarters of last year, capex
of the listed 13 OEMs in China actually
grew by about 35% year-over-year, which
is really surprising because we are
hearing all of these overcapacity talks,
but then they're still increasing capex.
And then as I mentioned, the cash profit
is being destroyed. But how can they
continue to expand and to compete?
And the reason is that last year we we
estimate about close to 15 to 16 billion
US dollar of equity was actually raised
by some of the auto OEMs in the equity
market. And then which have kept their
cash balance net cash at around 450
billion RMB last year. So, that's like
one of the key reasons cuz they keep
getting
investment.
>> This is a market and coverage really I
you know I don't envy your job that is
it keeps changing, right? You know I I
know you can't talk about specific
stocks. This next question is actually
not on specific stocks, but I'm just
curious.
I think the number of OEMs didn't it go
from I think 10 to 13 under your
coverage something like that. And I
wonder was there a specific
car maker OEM that surprised you the
most
last year and do you think we'll get new
entrants this year?
>> Yeah,
I'm so afraid I couldn't talk about any
specific
company, but we do think that this year
as I laid out domestic market is going
to be very very tough and the overseas
market is a bright spot. So, we do maybe
prefer the ones that have better
overseas
exposure and have more aggressive and
better overseas expansion plans.
So, that's one and in terms of new
entrants, I would say it's going to be
um relatively limited maybe in specific
very niche segment. We are seeing some
of the companies
talking about coming in. Some of them
showed their new models at the CES
recently.
But overall, I don't think these are
going to be like major disruptors in the
in the industry. Some of them are
offering more like sales channel or
these different kind of part of the
business, but not really like car
making.
>> Tina, thank you for joining us. Tina Hou
there China Autos analyst at Goldman.
We're just going to bring you back to
those live pictures out of Beijing. The
National Bureau of Statistics is still
that presser is undergoing here and they
talk about seeing multiple risks and
potential dangers in key sectors and
they're talking about the R&D intensity
that surpassed some of the OECD
countries average in 2025. So, that's
quite interesting as well
given the fact that we have seen
investment as we talked about that
year-to-date number and then there's our
very own Lucy Liu asking a question here
right now to of course authorities. But
the two words that we did hear from the
likes of
in terms of the economic performance in
2025 is stable and resilience. That's
how they described it here given the
fact that you know given all these
liberation day threats and all these
tariffs sort of threats that were
looming the trade side of things we
still came out of 2025 with you know 5%
growth which did meet the target there.
So, certainly that's going to be one
thing to watch but as Michelle Lam from
SocGen there the China economist is
saying that this data that we see does
tell a familiar story according to our
some of our T-live
colleagues there strong factories and
weak domestic demand.
That seems to be an ongoing theme.
>> If there were an attack on Greenland
from Russia from the some other other
area we would get dragged in so better
now peace through strength make it part
of the United States and there will not
be a conflict because the United States
right now we are the hottest country in
the world we are the strongest country
in the world. Europeans project weakness
US project strength.
>> US Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent
there how the US won't back down when it
comes to Greenland and that is the
backdrop of President Trump's return to
Davos this Wednesday where he is
scheduled to speak at the World Economic
Forum and he's threatened key European
with additional tariffs unless they cave
on agreement. This was the one single
sort of post that sparked obviously a
lot of protest in Copenhagen over the
weekend. We've also been told that
European leaders are set to meet this
week to discuss the potential tariffs on
US goods in retaliation. Now, you take a
closer look though
and now, this is what is being
threatened here right now. So, that this
is the white that you're seeing across
some of these EU countries is where
tariff levels stand right now with the
US, right? Largely speaking, they are
low
to double digits or high single digits
here right now. If in fact, President
Trump
you know, follows through with his
tariff threats here, they're talking
about February 1st a 10% additional
tariff on goods here and then by June
1st, if things don't get better, they're
talking about potentially 25% tariffs on
all goods.
So, what does that mean? If you add it
all up for each country, you're seeing
that in the blue, that's of course what
if you don't see by June 1st any sort of
off-ramp here, 25% tariff on all goods.
That would mean that tariff US effective
tariff rates on Europe would actually be
higher
than what we see with China,
which is quite interesting Dave because
you're talking about EU allies here,
with US allies, which Europe is,
to have a higher tariff potentially than
China. Uh you know, does that is that
enough that threat for the EU economies
to come together and say we have to do
something to retaliate?
>> Yeah, well, the language that's come out
so far is
does feel stronger. And in fact, right,
and we'll talk about the big bazooka
option that they could turn to
uh if in fact we head in that direction.
In fact, for more details on the
potential response, the tone coming
through
uh out of the White House, let's bring
in Rosalind Mathieson, our chief Asia
correspondent, is with us right now,
who's had a a very busy start to her
week, Rosalind.
So, just why don't we start on the
European side of things? What do we know
about how
what their plans are this week for this
in-person meeting? And when do we have
any idea of when that might be?
>> Well, no, but we do know that they're
planning to meet and they can bring
these things together pretty quickly.
But first of all, some of these leaders
are going to be at Davos, very much
hearing what Donald Trump has to say in
person about the US relationship with
Europe. But they are having their
separate meeting and there's a lot of
conversation going on about what the
options are for Europe and just how to
respond. They do have levers they can
pull on the trade side. They have an
awful lot of money that's currently
sitting in suspended retaliatory action
against the US on trade. Uh that's 93
billion euros of it. They have their
anti-coercion mechanism which they can
enact potentially. There's been
discussion about that well, since the
start of the Trump term really, since he
really turned his gaze on Europe when it
came to trade. They've been unwilling
really to do it so far because they've
been trying to negotiate with Donald
Trump. They've been taking the approach
of keeping him in the tent, showing that
they have a collective interest here in
trade and security. Uh now, is that
calculus changing? Quite possibly, you
know, going by the language that we're
seeing. But still, the question is are
they willing to really deploy some of
those trade mechanisms against Donald
Trump at this point? Maybe the 33
billion euros starts to get enacted and
we're in a full-throat, you know, trade
war between the EU and the US. Um and
the question is will leaders really
collectively do that? Because we have
seen differences of opinion between some
of the European countries about how
strongly to go. Um particularly again, a
bit of caution from Germany, pushing
harder from France, Italy in the middle
saying, "Let's find a way just to
de-escalate.
>> And Rose, I think what happened
you know, up until before this this
incident, you know, why Europe did
in some ways agree to those 15% tariffs
with the US was
it was a longer-term question of whether
Europe can can go by in defense and
security without the backing of the US
and with Ukraine
in particular as well, that that answer
was a
a big no last year. Do you think those
discussions have changed in any way now?
>> Well, it's really hard, as you say, to
separate trade and security cuz Donald
Trump just blurs those lines all the
time. And so it's very hard to separate
them out. The Europeans were trying to
do that. They're saying let's keep trade
on one side. Meanwhile, we're also
trying to get an end to Russia's war in
Ukraine.
And that seems to have fallen by the
wayside again because Donald Trump is
currently very focused on Greenland. I
mean, he came into power saying he was
going to end the war in Ukraine very
quickly. Well, it's been a year and
we're still no closer really necessarily
to ending that war in Ukraine. And
that's something that you the Europeans
have been trying to keep in the
conversation on as well and keep that
going. And does that now really taper
off? Where does that leave Ukraine? But
you know, Europe's also showing, "Hang
on, we do matter to you in terms of
things like Arctic security." It was
really telling that the the UK did
contribute to the US efforts to seize
that tanker recently in the North
Atlantic. They're showing, "We can
provide reconnaissance bases, logistics
to help you the US in this region. And
we can play a really integral role in
Arctic security. In fact, we're already
doing so. So cutting us out would be
dangerous." I mean, the US seems to
think they can go it alone in the
entirety of the region. Europe's trying
to say, "No, hang on, we can be
important." I mean, a fundamental
existential question for NATO is what is
the future of it? Um,
do we ever get to the point where the
European state of the US you've got to
get your troops out of out of Europe,
take them out of our bases.
>> Ros, thank you Ros Mathieson there,
chief Asia correspondent joining us out
of Singapore. And stay tuned all week on
Bloomberg Television for our special
coverage of the World Economic Forum in
Davos, Switzerland, where we'll hear
from political and business leaders
shaping the global agenda.
>> Right. Uh, in some world news this
morning, White House economic advisor
Kevin Hassett says President [music]
Trump may,
uh, let him keep his current job, uh,
which would eliminate him from the,
>> [music]
>> uh, contention as the next Fed chair.
Now, Trump last week expressed
reluctance about nominating Hassett,
saying that [music] the administration
would lose one of its most powerful
economic messengers. Now, sources say
the decision may now come down to former
governor
>> [music]
>> Kevin Warsh or BlackRock executive Rick
Rider.
Now, NASA has rolled out its next moon
rocket to [music] the launch pad at
Kennedy Space Center, marking a key
milestone in the lunar race with China.
Now, the move marks the start of Artemis
2, the mission that will send four
astronauts around [music] the moon and
back, uh, in 10 days. Now, the program
uses a launch system built by Boeing and
>> [music]
>> Orion spacecraft built by Lockheed
Martin. Now, the flight is set to launch
no later
than April. We have plenty more ahead.
This
is Bloomberg.
>> Just want to recap, of course, the data
dump that we got here at the top of the
hour. And for the most part, it was, you
know, meet expectations [music] in terms
of the fourth quarter GDP growth. Uh,
but you do still see the same story when
it comes to weak domestic demand.
>> Yeah, we we did. And I think some of the
commentary that's come through out of
the Bureau of Statistics does talk about
some of the key sectors [music] that
they're watching closely as far as risk
still, but as far as growth as you were
concerned,
uh the fourth-quarter numbers have taken
care
>> [music]
>> of of that specific target, 5% for the
year. Retail sales slightly to the
downside. Industrial output though was
the one that came in above expectations.
Right, uh that's it from us here on the
China show. We have plenty more ahead of
course on Bloomberg Television. Keep an
eye on European markets as they get
underway this Monday. We'll see you
tomorrow.